Downloading and running the executable quagmire12.exe  

Create a new folder in a location you can find easily, called CryptoPrograms or 
something similar that you will easily recognize. Create another folder inside 
this one for the cipher type, e.g., Quagmire12.  Now download the executable 
quagmire12.exe, the sample Quagmire II con file E11JF2009.txt, and the sample run file SampleRunQuagmire12.txt into this folder.  Any other cons that you wish to work with must be placed in this folder, as text files.  The file should consist of the con itself as a continuous string with no spaces, followed by the tip in uppercase letters on the next line.

Once it is downloaded, run the program by double-clicking the executable.  A new 
window should open.  It asks whether you want Quagmire I or II, and then asks for the file name of the con.  Before going further, I suggest that you customize the window as follows:

1.  There is an icon just to the left of the title at the top left of the window.  
Clicking on this reveals a drop-down menu.  Select the Defaults option.  This 
opens another window called Console Windows Properties, which has 4 tabs.  Change 
nothing in the General tab.
2.  Click on the Font tab and choose Lucida Console, whose letters are easier to 
read than the other choice.
3.  Click on the Layout tab.  Increase both the window width and screen buffer 
width from 80 to 90, giving a slightly wider window.
4.  Click on the Colors tab.  The program probably comes up with white text on a 
black background.  If you want to change the screen background from black to white 
and the screen text from white to black, this can be done by clicking on the 
appropriate radio button and then on the desired color square.  This is strictly a 
matter of personal preference.
5.  When you have finished making the changes, click OK.

These changes don't take effect until after the window is closed and re-opened.  
To make the changes immediate, select Properties in the drop-down menu and make 
the same changes.  You can make the window longer by dragging down on the lower 
right corner of the window. At the correct mouse position, a double-headed arrow 
control should appear.  You can't make the window wider using this control.

After customizing the window, go back to the program window and enter the name of 
the con file.  For the sample con file, for example, enter E11JF2009.txt.  If you 
make the con file using Notepad or another text editor, you must add the .txt 
extension when typing in the name.  When the tableau comes up, proceed to solve 
the con, following the directions given by the program.  All steps can be undone 
by entering 0 when it is given as an option.

If you want to print out the display, you will need to prepare the window to 
highlight the part you want to print.  To do this, follow these steps:

1.  Click on the icon at the top left corner of the window and mouse down to Edit.  
2.  A second menu opens; select Mark.  
3.  Now use the mouse to highlight the portion of the window you want to print.  
This is done by dragging over the area you want to select just as in a word-
processing document.  
4.  Open the drop-down menu again, mouse down to Edit, and select Copy in the 
second menu.  
5.  Open a new document in Notepad.  
6.  In Notepad's Edit menu select Paste.  The part of the window you highlighted 
should now appear in this Notepad document, and you can print it.

When you are finished solving, enter -1 as directed by the program.  The solution 
will be written to a text file called <conname>sol.txt, which you can look at 
later with Notepad by double-clicking it.
